# Kickstarting with Excel
## OVERVIEW OF PROJECT
- This project takes a deeper dive into creating a successful Kickstarter project by analyzing past projects. 
### PURPOSE
- The purpose of the project is to identify any patterns in similar Kickstarters - both successful and failed - in an attempt to set up a realistic Kickstarter project with a high chance of success based on the data gathered
## ANALYSIS AND CHALLENGES
- Analysis of the data shows correlations between specific data points and success rates of the various Kickstarters in the Theatre/Play/Musical space. 
### ANALYSIS OF OUTCOMES BASED ON LAUNCH DATE
- When looking at the Launch Date data for Theater specifically, it is apparent that there is a correlation between when a Kickstarter was started and how successful it might be. The data suggests that projects started between March and September had a higher chance of being successful with the highest success rate being in May and steadily declining until it ultimately intersects with the failed project value in December. 
### ANALYSIS OF OUTCOMES BASED ON GOALS
- Viewing the dataset based on goals shows that larger funding goals correlated to a greater chance of failure in a Kickstarter. 
### CHALLENGES AND DIFFICULTIES ENCOUNTERED
- Challenges encountered while dissecting the data were numerous. First, the data seems heavily skewed for both the countries of GB and US basd on extreme outliers in funding amount. This could be based in part on certain Kickstarters looking to actually build a theater instead of just put together a show. Second, there are many variables not looked at - such as subject matter relative to the total interested audience, how good the actual play seemed, and marketing of the Kickstarter. While this data would be valuable for Louise to start with, much more research would need to be conducted before an accurate assumption could be made on how to structure the Kickstarter campaign.
## RESULTS
 - The success rate of a Kickstarter in the Theater category while looking at the launch date can potenally predict success. However, there doesn't seem to be enough data in this specific view to predict failure since the number of failed projects is relatively steady thorughout the year. When converting the successul projects to a percentage, you can conclude that the success rate based on time of year is not as large as the raw numbers would lead one to believe
 - Looking at the success rate based on goals set by Kickstarter campaigns, it seems as if the projects with large goals were more likely to fail than the projects with smaller goals. Setting more conservative goals seems to yield a higher percentage of successful theater productions - maybe because the goal seems more realistic to potentail investors who would like to see their money put to good use. 
 - This dataset has some limitations that would require further reserach into more qualitative data. One glaring limitation is how "good" or "bad" a play might be. This depends not only on the quality of the writing, but on the audience the Kickstarter is marketed to. People simply aren't going to invest into a bad idea. Another limitation is the marketing itself. It is impossible to determine how each individual project was marketed and how much money was spent doing so. Another example of a data point which might help mitigate this issue would be to somehow show which projects had some sort of preview video associated with the project, and how much money was put into ensuring said video's quality. This could have profound impacts on the success rate of individual projects because, well, people may be less inclined to donate to something that doesn't appear to have much effort put into it.
 - Creating a table in the Outcomes Based On Launch Date which shows success rates in percentages would help better visualize the actual impact of launching a project during a certain time frame. Another interesting table and graph would be to compare number of pledges and amount pledged over time. This might help Louise understand if there is a pattern between days of the week, week of the month, months of the year that the bulk of pledges are made. Finally, it would also be helpful to see the genre of plays/musicals which are most successful. For example, are action-based productions more popular than horror-based? Do certain times of the year impact the success rate of each genre? As in, would making a love story around V-Day be more beneficial than launching it during Halloween? 
